English is either the official language or one of the official languages in almost 60 sovereign states It is the most commonly spoken language in the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, Ireland, and New Zealand, and is widely spoken in some areas of the Caribbean, Africa, and South Asia It is the third most common native language in the world, after Mandarin and Spanish It is the most widely learned second language and an official language of the United Nations, of the European Union, and of many other world and regional international organisations It is the most widely spoken Germanic language, accounting for at least 70% of speakers of this Indo-European branch
English has developed over the course of more than 1,400 years The earliest forms of English, a set of Anglo-Frisian dialects brought to Great Britain by Anglo-Saxon settlers in the fifth century, are called Old English Middle English began in the late 11th century with the Norman conquest of England, and was a period in which the language was influenced by French Early Modern English began in the late 15th century with the introduction of the printing press to London and the King James Bible, and the start of the Great Vowel Shift Through the worldwide influence of the British Empire, modern English spread around the world from the 17th to mid-20th centuries Through all types of printed and electronic media, as well as the emergence of the United States as a global superpower, English has become the leading language of international discourse and the lingua franca in many regions and in professional contexts such as science, navigation, and law
Modern English grammar is the result of a gradual change from a typical Indo-European dependent marking pattern with a rich inflectional morphology and relatively free word order, to a mostly analytic pattern with little inflection, a fairly fixed SVO word order and a complex syntax Modern English relies more on auxiliary verbs and word order for the expression of complex tenses, aspect and mood, as well as passive constructions, interrogatives and some negation Despite noticeable variation among the accents and dialects of English used in different countries and regions – in terms of phonetics and phonology, and sometimes also vocabulary, grammar and spelling – English-speakers from around the world are able to communicate with one another with relative ease
Give your students something interesting to do with a camera and teach them English at the same time!
Perfect to teach or revise body vocabulary and verb collocations and verbs of movement too! After covering the language, put the students into groups and designate one as the photographer (this can rotate). Get the photographer to tell the other students what poses to pull using the language. Then have a class competition for the best photo, funniest, most sombre etc.
This is great for teaching or revising verbs of the senses (it looks, looks like, looks as if) and modal verbs of deduction (it could be, it might be, it must be). Put students into groups and get them to go outside of the class and take a photo of something from an unusual angle, so that it is not clear what the thing is immediately. Then bring their photos back and share with the class. The class must guess what the object is.
Excellent for general fluency and speaking skills of clarification and justifying your opinion. Give the students categories of photos that they need to take. Broader categories are better so that students can be creative - this will help with the justification. Once they have taken their photos, bring them back and share them with the class. Get them to explain why they took the photo and how it fits the category. Then choose the best in each category.
Get your students to draw common collocations onto paper in order to better remember them. This is an excellent group activity and involves creativity. Students can discuss how best to illustrate each one and the class can compare and choose the clearest. Great idea!
Try our quiz to see if you've picked up our tips.
Well, those were just a few ideas that we here at BBC Learning English had, but we know that you teachers out there have lots of fantastic ideas too, and we’d like you to share them with us and everybody else.
If you have a great tip or technique for using a camera, or anything else, please email us at learningenglish@bbc.co.uk. Your email could be posted here on this page, or may even be mentioned in our show.
We are also looking for video tips to include in the programme. In order to do this, please include whether or not you’d like to be included for video with your tip, and we'll get in touch with you. You could be rewarded with a T-shirt for your efforts.
Find out what the objects in Sian and Dan's photos were!
Try our quiz to see how well you've learned today's language.
If you want to improve your pronunciation even more, try The Sounds of English or Tim's Pronunciation Workshop.
Join us in Session 4 for The Teachers' Room. Dan and Sian give tips on how to make dictation fun.
Listening exams don't need to be scary! Be prepared and together with some of our top tips, you can improve your performance when the exam day comes.
Watch this video to find out six top tips to help you in your listening exam. Then test your understanding in our quiz.
Scientists say they’ve created a ground-breaking new version of a life-saving antibiotic. They say the discovery will boost their battle against infections that are resistant to antibiotics, one of the biggest threats to global health.
The researchers in the United States modified an existing medicine, vancomycin, making it about a thousand times more powerful.
Looking for the meanings of words, phrases, and expressions? We provide hundreds of thousands of definitions, synonyms, antonyms, and pronunciations for English and other languages, derived from our language research and expert analysis. 
The Christian holiday of Pentecost, celebrated on the fiftieth day after Easter, commemorates the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the Apostles and other followers of Jesus Christ while they were in Jerusalem celebrating the Feast of Weeks, as described in the Acts of the Apostles (Acts 2:1–31). Some Christians believe this event represents the birth of the Church.
The holy day is also called "White Sunday" or "Whitsunday", especially in the United Kingdom, where traditionally the next day, Whit Monday, was also a public holiday (now fixed by statute on the last Monday in May). In Eastern Christianity, Pentecost can also refer to the entire fifty days of Easter through Pentecost inclusive; hence the book containing the liturgical texts for Paschaltide is called the "Pentecostarion". The date of Pentecost depends upon the date of Easter—it is, therefore, called a moveable feast.
In Germany Pentecost is denominated "Pfingsten" and often coincides with scholastic holidays and the beginning of many outdoor and springtime activities, such as festivals and organized outdoor activities by youth organizations. The Monday after Pentecost is a legal holiday in many European nations.
On 3 June 2017, commencing at 22:08 BST, three people conducted a terrorist attack in two locations in central London. The attack began when a white van rammed multiple pedestrians on London Bridge. Three men in the van then ran to Borough Market where stabbing attacks took place in multiple restaurants. Witnesses reported that the attackers shouted "This is for Allah" and stabbed patrons with knives.
Seven people were killed and 48 injured in the attack. Three suspects were shot dead by police. The Metropolitan Police declared the London Bridge and Borough Market attacks to be "terrorist incidents". Multiple explosions subsequently heard near Borough Market were confirmed to be controlled explosions.
Maria Luise Thurmair wrote "Der Geist des Herrn erfüllt das All" in Innsbruck in 1941, the year of her marriage to the hymnwriter Georg Thurmair. It was then a hymn in seven stanzas about the influence of the Holy Spirit, written for the Innsbruck hymnal Gotteslob (or Innsbrucker Gesangbuch). It was published in 1946 by Christophorus, part of Herder in Freiburg. The song appeared in the Catholic hymnal Gotteslob in 1975 as GL 249, in four stanzas with a 1609 melody by Melchior Vulpius. In the current Gotteslob it is GL 347, in the section "Pfingsten – Heiliger Geist" (Pentecost – Holy Spirit). In the Protestant hymnal Evangelisches Gesangbuch of Württemberg it appears as EG-Wü 554. In the Protestant hymnal of Rheinland/Westfalen/Lippe it is EG 566. The song has been included in several songbooks, such as Alive, a ecumenical songbook for young people.
In the current Gotteslob, the hymn appears in four stanzas of seven lines. The four stanzas are in bar form, each Abgesang ending on Halleluja. The first stanza describes creation as being filled with God's spirit, filled with light and rejoicing. The second stanza notes that the Spirit awakes the spirit of visionaries and prophets. The third stanza reflects Jesus rescuing Earth ("die Erde zu erlösen"). The last stanza uses images of the spirit as storm throughout the world with a breath of fire, making God's Kingdom alive ("wird Gottes Reich lebendig").
The tune in 6/4 time is a lively dance. It was originally composed for a hymn "Lobt Gott, den Herrn, ihr Heiden all". Johann Paul Zehetbauer composed a setting for a four-part mixed choir, published by the Promultis-Verlag in Munich in 2003.